Q1
The Master Blueprint: java.lang.Throwable
Every class that can be used with Java's exception handling mechanism (try, catch, throw, throws) must be a subclass of Throwable. 
If a class doesn't inherit from Throwable, it cannot be thrown.

Branch 1: java.lang.Error (System Failures)
Errors represent severe infrastructure or environmental problems outside the application's immediate control. 
They are unchecked because a program typically cannot recover from them, and trying to catch them is usually futile.
Characteristics: Indicates that the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) has run out of resources or encountered an unrecoverable failure.
Examples:
OutOfMemoryError: Thrown when the JVM cannot allocate an object because it is out of memory, and no more memory could be made available by the garbage collector.
StackOverflowError: Occurs when an application recurses too deeply, exhausting the thread's call stack space.

Branch 2: java.lang.Exception (Application Failures)
Exceptions represent conditions that a well-written application should anticipate, catch, and handle gracefully. 
This branch splits cleanly into two categories based on when they are checked:

A. Checked Exceptions (Compile-Time Exceptions)
These are subclasses of Exception excluding the RuntimeException family. 
They generally represent external environmental issues that your code must actively anticipate (like a missing file or an interrupted network connection).
Compilation Rule: The compiler strictly enforces the "Catch or Declare" rule. 
You must wrap the code in a try-catch block or declare the exception using throws.
Examples:
IOException: Thrown when an input/output operation fails or is interrupted (e.g., trying to read a file that doesn't exist).
SQLException: Thrown when an error occurs while accessing or manipulating a database.

B. Unchecked Exceptions (Runtime Exceptions)
These are subclasses that inherit directly from java.lang.RuntimeException. 
They almost always represent programming bugs, logical errors, or improper use of an API.
Compilation Rule: The compiler ignores them during build time. 
You are not forced to write code to catch or declare them, though you can.
Examples:
NullPointerException: Thrown when an application attempts to use null in a case where an object instance is required (e.g., calling a method on a null reference).
ArithmeticException: Thrown when an exceptional arithmetic condition has occurred, such as dividing an integer by zero (int result = 10 / 0;).


Q2
The fundamental difference between these two lies in when they are validated: at compile-time or at runtime.
Feature,Checked Exception,Unchecked Exception
Definition,Exceptions that inherit from Exception but not from RuntimeException.,Exceptions that inherit directly from RuntimeException or Error.
Compiler Enforcement,Yes. The compiler strictly forces you to handle it.,No. The compiler does not force you to handle or declare it.
Nature of Problem,"Represents predictable failures outside the immediate control of the code (e.g., missing files, network drops).","Represents programming errors, bugs, or logical flaws (e.g., bad inputs, API misuse)."
Examples,"IOException, SQLException","NullPointerException, ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException"

The compiler forces you to handle Checked Exceptions. 
If a method throws a checked exception, you must either handle it using a try-catch block or declare it in the method signature using the throws keyword. 
Failing to do so will result in a compilation error.


Q3
Output is: 
try
finally
3

(1) try block executes: The test() method starts, enters the try block, and prints "try".
(2) Return statement reached: The code hits return 1; inside the try block. 
The JVM evaluates this expression and holds the return value (1) in a temporary slot. 
However, it cannot actually exit the method yet because a finally block is present.
(3) finally block executes: Before control is returned to the caller, the finally block must execute. It prints "finally".
(4) Return value overridden: Inside the finally block, the JVM encounters return 3;.
A return statement inside a finally block abruptly discards any pending return values or exceptions from the try or catch blocks. 
The previous value of 1 is completely overwritten by 3.
(5) Main prints results: The method returns 3 to main(), which prints it to the console.
Note: Putting a return statement inside a finally block is considered a bad programming practice,
because it swallows returns and unhandled exceptions, leading to confusing code behavior.


Q4
Feature,throw,throws
Location,Written inside the method body or block of code.,Written in the method signature (declaration).
Quantity,Can only throw one exception instance at a time.,Can declare multiple exception classes separated by commas.
Syntax Target,Followed by an instance of an exception object (new Exception()).,"Followed by exception class names (IOException, SQLException)."
Core Function,Actively executes the handover. It halts current execution and flings the exception object up the call stack.,Passively warns callers. It serves as a contractual disclaimer that this method might pass this exception up.
Type Compatibility,Used for both checked and unchecked exceptions.,Primarily crucial for checked exceptions; declaring unchecked exceptions is optional.


import java.io.FileNotFoundException;

public class ExceptionSystem {

    // 1. 'throws' establishes a contract: "Calling me might result in a FileNotFoundException."
    // It is followed by the CLASS name.
    public static void readFile(String fileName) throws FileNotFoundException {
        if (fileName == null || fileName.isEmpty()) {
            
            // 2. 'throw' takes action. It instantiates and flings an OBJECT.
            // Execution halts here; control transfers immediately back to the caller.
            throw new FileNotFoundException("System error: The file path provided is empty.");
        }
        System.out.println("Reading data from: " + fileName);
    }

    // 3. Because loadConfiguration calls readFile(), it must also 'throws' or use try-catch
    public static void loadConfiguration() throws FileNotFoundException {
        readFile(""); 
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        try {
            loadConfiguration();
        } catch (FileNotFoundException e) {
            // 4. The thrown object is caught and handled here
            System.err.println("Application Alert: " + e.getMessage());
        }
    }
}


Q5
Code Behavior:
The code will compile successfully. Even though RuntimeException is thrown repeatedly, it is an unchecked exception, so the compiler does not demand explicit try-catch or throws handling for it.
When run, it will terminate abruptly with a RuntimeException: Error 3.

Detailed Step-by-Step Execution:
The try block executes and throws RuntimeException("Error 1").
The catch (Exception e) block intercepts Error 1. Inside this block, a new exception, RuntimeException("Error 2"), is thrown.
Before Error 2 can propagate out of the method, the finally block mandates execution.
The finally block runs and throws RuntimeException("Error 3").
Just like a return statement in a finally block overrides previous returns (as seen in Question 3), 
a thrown exception in a finally block suppresses and completely obliterates any exception previously thrown in the try or catch blocks.
Consequently, Error 1 and Error 2 are completely lost ("swallowed"), and only Error 3 is propagated back up to the console stack trace.


Q6
1. Can an Enum extend another class?
No. An enum in Java cannot explicitly extend any other class.
Why: When the Java compiler compiles an enum, it implicitly and automatically makes it extend the java.lang.Enum<E> class under the hood. 
Because Java only supports single inheritance for classes, an enum cannot extend any other class since it has already used up its single inheritance slot.
Alternative: An enum can, however, have its own fields, constructors, and methods directly inside its body.

2. Can an Enum implement an interface?
Yes. An enum can implement one or multiple interfaces.
Why: Java allows a class (or an enum) to implement an arbitrary number of interfaces. 
This is highly useful for assigning common behaviors to different enums. 
For example, you can have an enum implement Runnable or a custom interface to provide state-specific logic.


Q7
Output:
PENDING -> 0 -> 0
PROCESSING -> 1 -> 1
COMPLETED -> 2 -> 2

Status.values() returns an array containing all the constants of the enum in the exact order they are declared.
s.name() returns the exact string name of the enum constant as declared (e.g., "PENDING").
s.getCode() invokes the user-defined getter method, returning the custom int code value passed into the constructor (e.g., 0, 1, 2).
s.ordinal() returns the numerical position (zero-indexed) of the enum constant based on its declaration order. 
In this specific example, the custom codes happen to perfectly match the internal ordinal indices.


Q8
Aspect,Aggregation,Composition
Relationship Type,"
""Has-A"" relationship (Weak association / Loose bonding).",
"""Part-Of"" relationship (Strong association / Tight bonding)."

Lifecycle,
"Independent. If the container object is destroyed, the contained objects can continue to exist independently.",
"Dependent. The contained objects cannot exist without the container. If the container is destroyed, the parts are destroyed with it."

Object Creation Location,
Contained objects are typically created outside the container and passed in via a constructor or setter.,"
Contained objects are typically created inside the container (e.g., in the container's constructor or field initialization)."

UML Symbol,
An empty (hollow) diamond (♢) at the container class end.,
A filled (solid) black diamond (⧫) at the container class end.

Example,
"Department and Professor. If the department closes, professors still exist and can join other departments.",
House and Room. A room cannot exist independently without the physical structure of the house.


Q9
The relationship demonstrated in this code is Aggregation.

Reasoning:
Independent Lifecycles: The Book object b1 is instantiated outside the Library context (Book b1 = new Book("Java Programming");).
External Injection: The book is passed into the library instance using an operational method (lib.addBook(b1);).
Survival on Destruction: If the lib object is set to null or garbage collected, the b1 object remains fully intact and accessible in memory through the b1 reference variable. 
The library does not own or manage the lifetime of the book; it merely holds a reference to it.


Q10
The Three Key Elements of a Singleton Pattern:
(1) Private Constructor: Prevents external classes from creating new instances of the class using the new keyword.
(2) Private Static Instance: A private static variable of the same class type that holds the single, unique instance of the class.
(3) Public Static Getter Method: A public static method (conventionally named getInstance()) that provides global access to the single instance, handling lazy or eager instantiation safely.

Why must the constructor be private?
The constructor must be private to enforce control over instance creation.
If the constructor were left public or default (package-private), any client code could freely invoke new MySingleton() multiple times, 
completely violating the fundamental constraint of the pattern—which guarantees that one, and only one, instance of the class exists throughout the entire lifecycle of the application.


Q11
The fundamental difference between these two approaches lies in when the single instance of the class is allocated in memory.

Eager Initialization
The instance is created at the time of class loading, before any client code even calls getInstance().
Pros: Thread-safe without requiring explicit synchronization mechanisms; very simple to implement.
Cons: The instance is created even if the application never winds up using it, 
which can waste memory and slow down application startup if the initialization is resource-heavy.

Which creates the instance first? Eager Initialization creates the instance first.

Lazy Initialization
The instance is created on-demand, only when getInstance() is called for the very first time.
Pros: Efficient resource management; memory is only consumed when the instance is explicitly needed.
Cons: Requires careful implementation (like synchronization or a double-checked locking mechanism) to ensure thread safety in multi-threaded environments.


Q12
No, this implementation is incorrect and unsafe. It breaks the Singleton design pattern rules in two major ways:
1. The Problems
Public Constructor: The constructor public Singleton() { } is declared public. 
This allows any external class to freely execute new Singleton(), bypassing getInstance() completely and creating multiple instances.

Not Thread-Safe: The getInstance() method is vulnerable to race conditions. 
If two threads enter the if (instance == null) block simultaneously when the instance is still null, 
both will evaluate the condition as true, and both will instantiate a new Singleton object.

2. The Solution
To fix it, we must make the constructor private, make the instance variable volatile to prevent memory reordering issues, 
and implement thread synchronization using Double-Checked Locking.

public class Singleton {
    // volatile ensures that changes made by one thread are immediately visible to others
    private static volatile Singleton instance;

    // Fix 1: Constructor must be private
    private Singleton() { }

    public static Singleton getInstance() {
        // First check (no locking overhead if already initialized)
        if (instance == null) {
            // Synchronize on the class block to ensure only one thread enters
            synchronized (Singleton.class) {
                // Second check (verify another thread didn't initialize it while waiting)
                if (instance == null) {
                    instance = new Singleton();
                }
            }
        }
        return instance;
    }
}

